Oren Hazi

2203 Augusta Pl.
Santa Clara, CA 95051

oren.hazi@gmail.com
(310) 365-1176

A formatted version of this document is available here:
https://orenhazi.com/resume/oren_hazi_resume.pdf




Education

Stanford University
Stanford, CA
M.S., Electrical Engineering, 2012

California Institute of Technology
Pasadena, CA
B.S., Electrical Engineering, 2010




Objective and Interests

Seeking a challenging technical leadership position where my skills and expertise add significant value to a growing company. I have a strong analytical background, learn quickly, and am deeply passionate about my work. My interests include embedded system design, digital signal processing, image and video algorithms and compression, computer architecture, systems software, remote sensing (Radar, LIDAR, cameras, etc.), instrumentation systems. 




Practical Skills

* C, C++, Rust, Python, Java, Bash shell, Awk, various assembly languages (x86, ARM, AVR, OpenRISC, RISC-V), Verilog, VHDL, Amaranth HDL
* Firmware development for bare-metal environments and lightweight real-time operating systems (FreeRTOS, Zephyr)
* Experience with embedded platforms from STMicroelectronics, NXP, Atmel / Microchip, Nordic, Espressif, Cypress / Infineon, Maxim / Analog Devices, Lattice, Xilinx / AMD, Silicon Labs
* Schematic capture, PCB design, and circuit simulation: KiCad, Altium Designer, ngspice
* Basic mechanical design for rapid prototyping: FreeCAD, SolveSpace
* Highly proficient at using Linux environments for development; comfortable working in macOS and Windows
* Fluent English, some Hebrew, excellent verbal and written communication skills




Work Experience

Neurosteer
Santa Clara, CA
https://www.neurosteer.com/
Director of Engineering
January 2019 - Present

Led a major redesign of the analog front-end on Neurosteer's EEG product, addressing signal distortion issues and dramatically improving the device's dynamic range. Developed hardware and firmware for Neurosteer's wireless control board, focusing on link reliability, component availability, manufacturability, and EMC. Worked to identify and fix several connectivity bugs on Linux, Windows, and Android caused by incomplete or non-conforming BLE client implementations on those platforms. Submitted fixes to upstream open-source projects when possible. 

Designed test fixtures and wrote firmware and software to facilitate device provisioning and inventory management. Designed a streaming API to provide raw and processed signal data to web clients in near real-time using server-sent events. 

Managed software development for Lyra, a graph-based streaming platform for near-real-time signal processing in the cloud. Lyra developers write algorithm components in multiple languages and stitch them into pipelines by specifying the connections between component inputs and outputs. The platform handles pipeline scheduling, component execution, buffering between component inputs and outputs, and persistence of stream data to a database. Lyra is written in Rust, and algorithm components are written in Rust, C, or Python. 

Wrote and reviewed documentation for Neurosteer's first 509(k) submission to the FDA. Developed design controls, risk and quality management systems, and test procedures. Wrote technical and user-facing documentation. 


Magic Leap
Sunnyvale, CA
https://www.magicleap.com/
Senior Systems Engineer, Performance and Data Group
September 2015 - September 2017

Software development lead for Magic Leap's display algorithm architectural simulator. Worked to create cycle-accurate models of the algorithm pipeline on two Magic Leap ASICs. Modeled algorithms for arbitrary distortion correction, color and depth blending, and head motion compensation. Developed models for a tiled pixel access unit and a framebuffer cache. Simulator was used extensively to debug and verify individual components before chip tape-out. 

Developed a wireless system for synchronizing clocks in a room-scale motion capture system and on prototype hardware units. This replaced a time-consuming manual alignment process and enabled the team to meet a number of ambitious data collection goals in early 2017. Developed a set of quality metrics and analysis tools for verifying the precision and accuracy of the time alignment. 

Worked on a robotic system for “reanimating” a prototype wearable unit using previously captured motion data. Test content is rendered on the wearable display, while eye-proxy cameras capture the view that a user would see while wearing the device. The captured video is analyzed to characterize alignment between rendered content and real-world objects. This allowed us to measure total system latency, as well as evaluate the performance of pose estimation algorithms. 


Clover
Mountain View, CA
https://www.clover.com/
Systems Software Engineer
December 2013 - September 2015

Early member of systems engineering team that developed hardware and firmware for a new family of Android-based point-of-sale terminals (Clover Mini and Clover Mobile). Designed and maintained the communication system linking the application processor and secure microcontroller. Responsible for a large portion of the cryptographic system (key generation and storage, DUKPT and Transarmor algorithm implementations, certificate chain creation and validation). 

Worked to fine-tune analog performance of the NFC radio system in collaboration with engineers from FIME and NXP in order to pass EMV contactless certification. Developed fuzz testing tools for the terminal's external USB interfaces to assist with security audits for EMV certification. 

Owned and maintained firmware for a Bluetooth receipt printer initially developed by a contract design partner. Worked with manufacturing partner to debug and deploy a system for updating printer firmware in bulk via Bluetooth. 


Ambarella
Santa Clara, CA
https://www.ambarella.com/
Member of Technical Staff, Architecture Group
January 2012 - December 2013

Designed and maintained the full-chip testing framework for the image processing unit on Ambarella chips (IDSP). Framework allows users to quickly generate a pipeline of chained IDSP filters by describing their connectivity rather than by manually programming individual DMA channels and fine-tuning intermediate buffer sizes. Framework is used extensively in platform use-case tests, which verify that new image algorithms run correctly and within timing constraints of new IDSP architectures. 

Designed and maintained the HEVC/H.265 architecture model components for AQP (activity / quantization parameter) and Inter Candidate Prediction blocks within the video encode/decode unit on Ambarella chips (VDSP). Architecture model is used for verification of intermediate operations before the final video output can be compared to the reference output. 


Empower RF Systems
Inglewood, CA
https://www.empowerrf.com/
Consultant, Supervised by Paulo Correa
Summer 2011

Designed an Atmel XMEGA AVR-based control system for use in an RF amplifier module. The system measures critical parameters (supply voltages, drain current, temperature, etc.) and protects RF components from transient conditions by adjusting bias and input attenuation. The system provides “black box” functionality by maintaining measurement and control logs in non-volatile memory to assist in failure analysis, and is fully configurable via an external serial interface. 


Jet Propulsion Laboratory
Pasadena, CA
https://uavsar.jpl.nasa.gov/
Technologist I, Radar Technology Group, Supervised by Dr. Gregory Sadowy
Summer 2010

Developed an FPGA system to determine the usable throughput of a 2.5 Gbps (nominal) optical link between a testbed phased array radar and an off-the-shelf data recorder. The design transmits simulated receiver data over an optical fiber using the serial front panel data port (sFPDP) protocol. A commercial IP core was used to implement the sFPDP data link, and the design includes benchmark logic to characterize the link. 


California Institute of Technology
Pasadena, CA
Teaching Assistant, Prof. Barry Megdal
Winter - Spring 2010

Lab assistant for junior- and senior-level analog electronics design project courses. Helped students bridge the gap between their theoretical knowledge of analog circuits and the practical considerations needed to make them work (real-world operational amplifiers, transistor biasing, power supplies, temperature variation, non-linear effects, etc). EE 90 required students to design and build an ultrasonic rangefinder. EE 91 allowed students to design and build a project of their choice. 


Empower RF Systems
Inglewood, CA
http://www.empowerrf.com/
Engineering Intern, Supervised by Paulo Correa and Bill Vassilakis
Summer 2009

Assisted in the development and testing of a 3.5 GHz 50 Watt linear power amplifier. The amplifier uses a Doherty final stage to simultaneously meet the linearity and efficiency requirements of the system. Set up and operated the company's LPKF automated PCB router for rapid prototyping. 


Jet Propulsion Laboratory
Pasadena, CA
http://thz.caltech.edu/
Summer Research Fellow, Submillimeter Wave Advanced Technology (SWAT) Team, Supervised by Dr. Ken Cooper and Dr. Peter Siegel
Summer 2008

Designed and implemented a set of digital filters and peak-finding algorithms in Matlab for high-resolution radar imaging though clothing. Filters reduce radar clutter and highlight features that appear to be weapons. Designed a digital control board for the radar's Miteq 33-35 GHz synthesizers. 




Projects

MazeWorld
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xS0cTgBlB-w
CS 248 - Interactive Computer Graphics, Prof. Vladlen Koltun
Winter 2012, Stanford

Wrote a 3D game in C++ using OpenGL. Player controls a marble with arrow keys and spacebar to navigate through a maze environment as quickly as possible. Designed a rigid-body dynamics engine to simulate realistic rolling, bouncing, and angular effects on surfaces with different coefficients of friction and restitution. 


Stereo Image Compression Competition
https://orenhazi.com/resume/papers/stereo.pdf
EE 398a - Image and Video Compression, Prof. Bernd Girod
Winter 2012, Stanford

Designed a lossy compression algorithm to efficiently store “3D” stereo image pairs. Video-inspired algorithm uses “disparity vectors” with quarter-pixel resolution to estimate differences between corresponding regions within an image pair. Original and residual pixels are encoded using a wavelet compression algorithm, and disparity vectors are compressed with a Golomb coder. Design won first place out of four teams in a competition that required compressing seven unknown image pairs in under 14 minutes, with a minimum PSNR of 37 dB. 


Final Approach
https://orenhazi.com/resume/papers/final_approach.pdf
CS 229 - Machine Learning, Prof. Andrew Ng
Fall 2011, Stanford

Wrote an automated landing system for a Cessna 172 Skyhawk as a plugin for the X-Plane flight simulator. System uses an apprenticeship learning model to discover the dynamics of the aircraft during two phases of flight: final approach to runway and flare before touchdown. A planning algorithm then guides the aircraft using the learned aircraft dynamics. 


Mobile Wine Label Recognition
https://orenhazi.com/resume/papers/wine_labels.pdf
EE 368 - Digital Image Processing, Prof. Bernd Girod
Spring 2011, Stanford

Built an Android application for wine label recognition on a mobile phone. Used SURF feature detection and a modified RANSAC method to match photographs of wine bottle labels taken on a camera phone with an online wine label database. Modified RANSAC improves robustness to cylindrical distortions of the wine label. 


Micropolygon Rasterization
EE 271 - Introduction to VLSI Design, Prof. Mark Horowitz
Fall 2010, Stanford

Modified the design and verification environment for a z-buffered micropolygon rasterizer in Verilog to meet throughput requirements for real-time rendering. Optimizations include back-faced polygon culling, pipeline bubble compression, state machine modifications, and parallelization of the design. The final design limits power consumption to 250 mW and silicon area to 0.2 mm^2 and has a maximum throughput of 0.52 polygon/ns (>100 Hz update rate for scenes with 5 million polygons). 


AVR CPU Design
EE 119b - Advanced Digital Systems Design, Glen George
Winter 2010, Caltech

Created a cycle-compatible design and verification environment for an AVR microprocessor core using VHDL. Design includes the ALU, register bank, instruction register and control unit, and the program and data memory access units. Simulated design with a test program and synthesized for a Xilinx Spartan II FPGA. 


FSK Wireless Teletype
EE 91 - Experimental Projects in Electronic Circuits, Prof. Barry Megdal
Fall 2009, Caltech

Designed and built a low-power wireless transceiver for short text messages operating on the 2-meter amateur band. Transmitter uses a fractional-N PLL for frequency synthesis and has an output power of +10 dBm at 144 MHz. Receiver consists of a heterodyne demodulator with a 10.7 MHz IF, limiting amplifier, and frequency discriminator. System has a receiver-limited usable bit-rate of 1 kbps. 


Electronic Flight Information System
EE/CS 53 - Microprocessor Project Laboratory, Glen George
Fall 2008, Caltech

Designed and built a microcontroller system with a small sensor bank (two MEMS gyros, a three-axis accelerometer, and a two-axis magnetometer) for computing aircraft heading and attitude information. Designed a display controller for a 480x272 pixel color LCD using a CPLD and a fast SRAM. Display shows attitude information and other relevant flight data. 




Personal Interests and Hobbies

Building and flying radio-controlled model aircraft (FPV fixed-wing and multi-rotor), Figure skating, Woodworking, Cello, Scuba diving (NAUI Master and Rescue diver certifications) 
